.TH RELEASE 1 "January 2014"

.SH NAME
release \- make git releases automatically

.SH SYNOPSYS

.B release
[\fIflags\fR] \fIreleasetype\fR [\Icommittish\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B release
is a git release-generating tool. It obeys semantic versioning, and
uses keywords in order to advance the version. For example, \fIrelease
minor\fR on a project whose most recent tag is \fIv0.2.1\fR, a new tag
will be made with the label \fIv0.3.0\fR and the message being a
changelog of all items between the new tag and \fIv0.2.0\fR. It is
also capable of handling prerelease labels.

Versions tags are always of the following form:
.RS 4
.RB v major . minor . patch [- prerelease ].
.RE
These correspond to the specification for semantic versioning, in
which \fImajor\fR refers to non-backwards compatible versions of the
public API, \fIminor\fR refers to backwards compatible feature
additions and deprications (but not removals), \fIpatch\fR refers to
bugfixes and minor changes, and \fIprerelease\fR is an optionally
supplied (with a dash (\-) separating it from the version if so)
string, such as "alpha", or "rc2". See full specification at
<http://semver.org>.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B \-\-prerelease
\fIlabel\fR
.RS 4
specifies the prerelease label with which the version will be
tagged. If not supplied, the new tag will not contain a prerelease
suffix.

Note that if the \fIcurrent\fR version tag has a prerelease, then the
version number will not be advanced - instead, the prerelease label
will be updated, and the \fIreleasetype\fR argument will affect only
the generated changelog.
.RE

.PP
.BR \-\-cwd ,\  \-C
\fIrepository\fR
.RS 4
causes
.B release
to operate as if it is in the given directory.
.RE

.PP
.BR \-\-dryrun
true
.RS 4
prevents an tag from actually being created, but performs other
operations.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.I v1.5.3
.RS 4
.B release major
.br
.RI \->\  v2.0.0 ,\ changelog\  v1.5.3 .. v2.0.0
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
.B release minor
.br
.RI \->\  v1.6.0 ,\ changelog\  v1.5.3 .. v1.6.0
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
.B release patch
.br
.RI \->\  v1.5.4 ,\ changelog\  v1.5.3 .. v1.5.4
.RE
.RS 4
.B release major --prerelease alpha
.br
.RI \->\  v2.0.0-alpha ,\ changelog\  v1.5.3 .. v2.0.0-alpha
.RE
.PP
.I v2.0.0-alpha
.RS 4
.PP
.B release prerelease --prerelease beta
.br
.RI \->\  v2.0.0-beta ,\ changelog\  v2.0.0-alpha .. v2.0.0-beta
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
.B release major
.br
.RI \->\  v2.0.0 ,\ changelog\  v1.0.0 .. v2.0.0
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
.B release prerelease
.br
.RI \->\  v2.0.0 ,\ changelog\  v2.0.0-alpha .. v2.0.0
.RE
.PP


.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexander Bauer.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.B release
Bug reports and feature requests are
.I greatly
appreciated, and should both be made to the issues page,
<https://github.com/SashaCrofter/release-git/issues> or to the author,
Alexander Bauer <sasha@crofter.org>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 Alexander Bauer.

License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3
or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
